src/api/apiResources.md, before:

# API Resources

There are a wide range of resources available to help make it easier to interact with the Betfair API, including those created by Betfair as well as the wider community.

Here are some of the resources we'd recommend taking a look at if you're building a program to interact with either the polling and/or Stream APIs. 

## The basics
- [Creating & activating your app key](/api/apiappkey)
- [Dev Docs](http://developer.betfair.com)
- [Developer Program knowledge base](https://betfairdevelopersupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us)
- [Developer Forum](https://forum.developer.betfair.com/) where you can share your experiences and find out what's worked for other clients

!!! info "API access"
    Customers are able to access our API to embed it into their programs and automate their strategies
    Please [reach out](mailto:api@betfair.com.au) if you're an Australian or New Zealand based customer and are keen for support.

## Github
- Our Datascientists' repos for using [R](/api/apiRtutorial) and [Python](/api/apiPythontutorial) to access the API
- There's an ANZ [Betfair Down Under](https://github.com/betfair-down-under) community GitHub repo where you can find sample code, libraries, tutorials and other resources for automating and modelling on the Exchange
- [The UK’s Github repo](https://github.com/betfair/API-NG-Excel-Toolkit) including libraries for other languages

## Visualisers
- [Exchange Sports API visualiser](https://docs.developer.betfair.com/visualisers/api-ng-sports-operations/) for testing market-related queries
- [Exchange Account API visualiser](https://docs.developer.betfair.com/visualisers/api-ng-account-operations/) for testing account-related queries

## Other resources
- [Towards Data Science](https://towardsdatascience.com/an-introduction-to-betfair-api-and-how-to-use-it-e3cdbd79c94b) provide a decent basic walk through of how to log in to the polling API and pull market data, with some interesting commentary along the way.

!!! info "Betfair Quants Slack Group"
    `betfair quants` is really active community-owned Slack group for people interested in modelling and automation on the Exchange. Please [reach out](mailto:automation@betfair.com.au) if you'd like an invitation.

Commit message:

adding videos to tutorials and knowledge share link to API resource list

src/api/apiResources.md, after:

# API Resources

There are a wide range of resources available to help make it easier to interact with the Betfair API, including those created by Betfair as well as the wider community.

Here are some of the resources we'd recommend taking a look at if you're building a program to interact with either the polling and/or Stream APIs. 

## The basics
- [Creating & activating your app key](/api/apiappkey)
- [Dev Docs](http://developer.betfair.com)
- [Developer Program knowledge base](https://betfairdevelopersupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us)
- [Developer Forum](https://forum.developer.betfair.com/) where you can share your experiences and find out what's worked for other clients

!!! info "API access"
    Customers are able to access our API to embed it into their programs and automate their strategies
    Please [reach out](mailto:api@betfair.com.au) if you're an Australian or New Zealand based customer and are keen for support.

## Github
- Our Datascientists' repos for using [R](/api/apiRtutorial) and [Python](/api/apiPythontutorial) to access the API
- There's an ANZ [Betfair Down Under](https://github.com/betfair-down-under) community GitHub repo where you can find sample code, libraries, tutorials and other resources for automating and modelling on the Exchange, including an [Awesome List](https://github.com/betfair-down-under/AwesomeBetfair) and [Knowledge Share](https://github.com/betfair-down-under/knowledgeShare) with helper functions and guidance on best practice shared by the ANZ automation community. 
- [The UK’s Github repo](https://github.com/betfair) including libraries for other languages

## Visualisers
- [Exchange Sports API visualiser](https://docs.developer.betfair.com/visualisers/api-ng-sports-operations/) for testing market-related queries
- [Exchange Account API visualiser](https://docs.developer.betfair.com/visualisers/api-ng-account-operations/) for testing account-related queries

## Other resources
- [Towards Data Science](https://towardsdatascience.com/an-introduction-to-betfair-api-and-how-to-use-it-e3cdbd79c94b) provide a decent basic walk through of how to log in to the polling API and pull market data, with some interesting commentary along the way.

!!! info "Betfair Quants Slack Group"
    `betfair quants` is really active community-owned Slack group for people interested in modelling and automation on the Exchange. Please [reach out](mailto:automation@betfair.com.au) if you'd like an invitation.
